the United Nations says nearly a million
Palestinians have fled their homes in
the Gaza Strip in the week since Israel
launched its military response to the
killings and kidnappings by Hamas the
entire Enclave has been hit by Israeli
strikes from Gaza City in the north to
Rafa in the South the border crossing
there at Rafa with Egypt has remained
shut since the Hamas attacks last
weekend crowds of Palestinians and
foreign Nationals have been gathering at
the Crossing after new that an
evacuation route made temporarily open
our correspondent John donison sent this
report and a warning that you might find
some of the images in his report
upsetting outside the main hospital in
Rafa ice cream
trucks the morg is
full some of the Dead have been here for
two days yasak katab tells us these
freezers are meant for food he says not
bodies and this is right in the south of
Gaza where people are now being told to
evacuate
to hundreds of thousands are now heading
in this
direction but Egypt says it won't open
the crossing even for foreign Nationals
until Israel agrees to allow Aid
in and Hamas also controls this border
and has a say on who is allowed
out the nearby United Nations school is
packed with those seeking
shelter but it was already at full
capacity before this latest evacuation
order as Palestinians what did we do for
this to happen to us Hannah alabi asks
she tells us she ran out of the house
Barefoot with nothing when Israel bombed
her neighborhood and came straight to
the
school at noon today many were were
praying one would think for better
times many of those here are children
still smiling despite it
all around half gaza's population is
under 18 and some are old beyond their
years rames bahum is just 15 this is his
fifth
War I can barely stand it he says and
look around you at all these kids ask
them do you want to live or not we just
want to be secure it goes on our dream
is to live that's all we
want John donison BBC
News well the World Health Organization
says an order by Israel to evacuate more
than 20 hospitals in Northern Gaza is T
to mount to a death sentence for some of
the sick and injured the W has expressed
particular concern for people on life
support and newborn babies in incubator
health centers in the South are also at
maximum capacity tens of thousands of
civilians are moving ahead of an
expected Israeli ground offensive in
Gaza earlier on I spoke to Dr Natalie
Roberts she's the executive director of
the humanitarian organization medson
Frontier UK she described the Grim
situation for the people of
Gaza it is as you've described just now
pretty catastrophic I mean they've had a
week of Relentless bombing so thousands
and thousands of bombs dropping down a
very small piece of land in the North
and the South of Gaza so producing many
dead but many many many many more
wounded at the same time with the
electricity and water having been cut
off now a week ago and we're getting to
the point where really there is no
access to clean water and no electricity
to continue running the medical
facilities anyway and now in the last
couple of days these evacuation orders
and and that's just led to Absolute
chaos you know we have 300 staff in Gaza
some of them have managed to move to the
South are trying to transfer patients to
the South some of them have no choice
but to stay behind in the north and try
and continue to run Medical Care in the
north either way they're describing
utter chaos and and a sense of Despair
well I want to to talk a bit more about
that because we've heard about
journalists being targeted we've heard
about air strikes on civilian
infrastructure how dangerous is it for
your teams on the
ground I mean it's incredibly dangerous
the majority of our teams are
Palestinian so they they come from Gaza
they live in Gaza they never seen
anything to this scale before um we're
seeing ambulances being hit we're seeing
medical facilities being hit and as
people were moving south yesterday they
were saying they could hear the bombs
they didn't feel in safety so they're
you know they're incredibly worried
about being caught up in this about
being injured themselves many of our
staff have lost family members um our
International staff as well they're
stuck in the same situation either
having to to stay in the North or choose
to move to the South and and and the
same the same scenario applies to them
you know even once they get to the South
there's no way for them to stay they're
trying to find you know a place on the
floor somewhere in a school um on a
mattress that there really is you know
this this sense that there's no way out
there's no Escape medson some Frontier
is known around the world for its uh Aid
work uh keeping away from politics how
easy is it for your teams to operate
around some of these border crossings
like close to Egypt where the
authorities there have shut things
down I mean yes we're very used to
working in war zones we're very used to
negotiating our way into into war zones
and to get our supplies in to get our
our staff in um and currently at the
moment the the only border crossing the
Rafa border crossing is closed to us as
it's closed to everybody else um so we
can't get supplies in we can't get staff
in we can't get our staff out so you
know we're facing the same situation as
everybody else at the moment despite the
fact we've been working in Gaza for such
a long period of time for the people who
are fleeing um heading for that that
border crossing the rougher Crossing
what kind of support do they
need I mean first of all they need to
have some reassurance that they can
travel in safety um that they can move
in safety on the roads and we saw
yesterday that that doesn't seem to be
the case that the bombing continues even
on these safe roads um we need them to
be reassured that once they get to the
crossing they will be allowed to cross
in safety um that there'll be met with
some sort of Welcome um and with
humanitarian Aid if they manag to enter
Egypt for example and also a reassurance
that people can return home um I think
there's a lot of concern that people
don't want to leave their homes and they
particularly don't want to leave Gaza
knowing that they might never be able to
go back so so obviously you know the
reassurance of safety and the
reassurance of you know you should be
able to go home at the same time people
have chosen to stay at home and people
have chosen to stay working in the
hospitals in Gaza City for example you
know they they're terrified at now that
means that they're labeled as a Target
um and and there needs to be reassurance
that hospitals will still be protected
that Medical Care will still be
protected even if people who stayed in
the north of Gaza that was Dr Natalie
Roberts from Medan sun frontier well the
US has ordered a second aircraft carrier
group to the Eastern Mediterranean
according to American officials the USS
Eisenhower is part of American efforts
to deter hostile actions against isra
or any efforts towards widening the war